we live and address in the grip of fast
fashion but this means there is a
massive environmental fallout we're
sending 1.2 million tons of textiles to
landfill every year and fewer than 16
percent of what we buy is actually being
recovered now even though I try to be
good I'm not an exception to the rule
I'm afraid and this is my guilty secret
there's one wardrobe and it's not just
this one this one as well
all up here belts tight set cetera and
this is really symptomatic all our
wardrobes are fit to bursting
particularly I'm sorry to be so gender
specific if you are a woman my husband's
clothes are well they're pretty much
confined half of this down there that's
all the poor man has and it's really
about how we can utilize this and
decrease our fashion footprint and just
try and think my way through a more
sustainable wardrobe
no matter how careful you are everybody
makes major wardrobe errors now this is
one of mine feel a little bit of shamed
here these are some linen trousers which
I bought a great expense I may add
because I was assured they were the
thing of the season this was last year
sometime I wore these once and I just
felt like Coco the clown and I don't
think anyone else had a pair of trousers
that was quite so billowing with quite
so much fabric in them
chucking out everything from your
wardrobe throw it in a bag and then you
donate it's charity and I use the term
donate very loosely and then it becomes
basically someone else's problem which
is exactly what it does become unless
you're very very specific about what you
actually give to charity so that it's
really useful stuff
right here we are this is all the
detritus from my wardrobe and now I just
need to know work out exactly what I'm
gonna do with this jeans these are not a
desirable not a desirable color anymore
nor shape I know for a fact these are
really not a shape that I want to wear
anymore but I know there is a good
market in the developing world for for
repurposed denim so I know that a
charity will be able to get something
for those even though they might not be
a fashionable shape here now another
thing that is habitually thrown into
landfill at Heights wheel added them
very easily we get through them very
easily
and they're considered to be a very low
value and you know who wants old tights
well there is an organization that does
want them they're full of lycra they're
actually really important from a medical
point of view and there is an
organization that collects these and
will send them to Ethiopia where they're
used basically as languages for women
after childbirth and they're very very
important and they kind of need a
constant supply of those so as if by
magic we're going to put that address on
the screen and I'm going to these are
washed by the way I should just
reiterate that I'm going to just put
them in a jiffy bag and then I'm going
to label this up and I am going to send
it on so that's a very good way of
repurposing something that always gets
thrown in the bin now believe it or not
British bras are very much prized
particularly throughout the developing
world because they're very well
engineered they are good fabric they're
well made so these can be repurposed it
doesn't matter even if they're a little
bit broken because they can be mended
quite simply and they still do have a
lot of value now sometimes charity shops
don't realize if you actually take them
in that they are needed and they can
take them so you may actually have to
kind of educate the people that work in
the shops any sustainable wardrobe
management project you need to look at
preserving these accessories I'm just
going to cut these off and keep them and
I'm going to use them in something else
they really are quite nice but endure
my skill level is quite limited so I'm
not going to be able to make anything
fantastic but I know that this is a very
very good linen I mean I can see it I
can feel it it's so wide that you could
make some little cushions out of that
very easily because the seams are
already there but because it's so good I
would really consider giving this to
someone who actually knows what they're
doing
like junky styling who've been
refreshing stuff for about 15 years
so a hem becomes a sleeve a collar used
to be a bit of a skirt it's all been
really nicely put together like a kind
of jigsaw
there's panels in this which were from
another old skirt that I had which is
actually in even a sort of nylon fabric
which I wouldn't have thought that you
could repurpose and I think if you've
got a really nice piece it's worth doing
that with so it can live on in your
wardrobe now towels which have seen
better days because we're talking about
all textiles here we really don't want
these going to landfill you know to be
honest really this is not going to sell
through a charity shop very easily some
animal charities are desperate for old
towels they can use them as bedding
they're just very useful or if you've
got your own pets then you can use them
closer to home